>>Good morning everyone, welcome to the certain
last Quartz composition during this WWDC 2007
so my name's Pierre-Olivier Latour, I am the
Engineering Manager for Quartz Composer
and today during this session we're going to look
at using Quartz Composer in your applications
through concrete integration case studies.
So, what you will learn during these sessions
are first of all we'll do a rapid overview
of what's new regarding the propers
for Quartz Composer and Leopard.
And then we'll have a look at those
case studies I just mentioned.
So there's going to be one where we set up some simple data
visualization directly on the desktop and the other one
where we look at another way to visualize movies and
the final one we're going to look at how we built
that Quartz Composer visualizer which you can see
in the graphics and imaging lab downstairs.
And through those three examples we're
obviously going to build some custom patches
which is the big news things for you guys.
We're going to make some assumptions during this session,
three of them basically that you already played
with Quartz Composer and editor application, that you
played as well a little with the basic Quartz Composer API's
for example QCView or QCRenderer and also that you are
familiar with the basics of Objective-C 2.0 properties
because we rely on that for the writing
custom plug-ins, custom patches.
So first of all, a quick tour of all
the new features that effect developers.
What is Quartz Composer and Leopard?
Well, it's truly a matrix technology.
The first version of Quartz Composer was released in
Tiger and now two years later, there's been a lot of work
that went in and one of the first things you will notice
is, we've done a lot of work to improve the image processing
which is usually at the heart of Quartz Composer and that
means concretely the ability to handle very large images,
high precision data floating point
for instance, very efficiently as well
as full color matching all the way, correct on everything.
So it's a big improvement whereas what you had in Tiger.
Then like I mentioned, the ability for you to write custom
patches, we also have system wide composition repository
which we mentioned during the first couple of Quartz
Composer sessions, and a bunch of new API's available
and we're only going to look at a few of them today.
Now when it comes to development environment
itself, the editor has been redesigned.
We have lots of changes under the hood and I'm sure
you noticed that if you went to yesterday's session
and when it comes to the patches
themselves, we also have a lot of new patches
and many changes on the already existing one.
So rapidly the new editor template helps you get
started faster, it has a lot of new features in it,
you are ready to create now it's in the
workspace, I did the parameters in line.
You can have timelines; we improve the way of
creating patches using that floating window there.
A lot of changes, so I highly encourage you to look at
it; something that wasn't mentioned so far is the ability
to edit meta data inside the composition so you can
now attach any kind of regular plist like meta data
like dictionary string attributes and so forth in
the file and retrieve them from your application
by using the attributes method on
the QCView or QCRenderer and so on.
So it's pretty useful, and to integrate better into
your work flow when you develop compositions especially
if you have source version controlling your environment
where you wouldn't really be able to decomposition directly
because they are essentially battery files, we now have
a nice composition comparator built inside the editor.
When it comes to programming inside the Quartz
Composer environment, the Core Image kernel patch
and the JavaScript patches have been redesigned
completely, they are a lot more powerful and invite you
to watch yesterday's session if you want more information
about those and also some mention on that slide
which we have a new GLSL patch as well for programming.
An interesting new patch for developers is the composition
loader new in Leopard, and what it does is allows you
to load a composition from what's in a file on disk
into another composition that's currently running.
So as you can imagine, it's pretty powerful
because it really allows you to instead
of having a big monolithic composition where you have
absolutely everything in it, you export it in sub pieces
that are easier to manage or to edit or that your graphic
card is to work with, you can easily modify without risking
to break the whole scheme or something like that.
So using the composition loader you can completely
configure the way you want and it's really powerful.
I also wanted to talk about virtual
patches, something new in Leopard
and it's basically writing passed custom
patches without having to code in Xcode.
So what exactly does that mean?
You start by creating your regular composition
file and you publish inputs and outputs
at the top level, so nothing changes so far.
Then what you do with that file is you drop it
into library graphics Quartz Composition patches
or to dot library graphics Quartz Composer patches.
Then you relaunch the editor or actually any application
that uses Quartz Composer so that the change is taken
into account and now your composition file
is actually available as a stand alone patch.
And you can just drag and drop it like any other patch
that would be native into the workspace and use it
and it's not a Micro patch, if you double
click on it you won't be able to edit it,
but it's really kind of a weak link between the file that's
on disk and the inclusion inside the composer composition.
If you change your file on disk, the changes are reflected,
it has exactly at the plug-in if you open a composition
and this virtual patch is not in place then you will get an
error, you won't be able to properly load the composition.
Briefly about the composition repository,
so it's really this idea
of Quartz Composer becoming the standard web expression
motion graphics and visual effects and the platform
so now we have a nice area where we can put all those
composition files and share them between applications.
So this relies on the fact that
we define a number of protocols
which are a pretty fine set of
inputs and outputs for compositions.
Any composition file you drop in there will automatically
be taken advantage of by the compatible applications
and we have a few out of the box in the system for you to
write a lot of them, and some example protocols are filters,
omission transitions, those kind of things.
And it comes with an API as you can guess.
Now let's look at the integration API's and Quartz Composer
so that you can use Quartz Composer in the application.
There are essentially four of them,
the first one is new for Leopard
and is a new concept is a QCComposition;
we're going to look at that in a minute.
We also have another new class which is
the QCComposition layer which allows you
to integrate seamlessly Quartz Composition
contents inside kernel emission trees, layer trees.
And finally the old kind of two API's
which run in Tiger, QCView and QCRenderer,
the first one being for integration nicely, easily, inside
interface builder for instance, Cocoa binding and so forth.
And the other one, the QCRenderer
really being the overall API,
so let's look at QCComposition,
what exactly is that new beast?
It's an abstract class that represents a composition
file and we realize we need it to introduce a new concept
because we moved this composition around between the
API's and there was no abstraction prior to that.
You were dealing with the files on disk and introduction
of the repository especially meant that required.
So how do you get or create those composition files?
Well the first step, the first possibility, is that you get
them from the repository where you can get a composition,
a QCComposition instance if you know the item key file
specifically the composition you want in the repository,
or you can ask the repository for all the composition
that complies so instead of protocols and attributes
and it will return you an area of QCComposition objects.
The other possibility is to create then indirectly
for instance, it can them from a file on disk
or from a data blog and that's interesting to data case
for developers who want to product their compositions,
because remember they're completely open source.
So if you want to kind of encrypt them
or you don't want to have your users
or competitors look at how this composition is designed.
Well, you can just encrypt them and at the
end of the day what you need to do is decrypt,
have the data blog be exactly what the content that QC file
is on disk, and you can pass that to composition with data.
Or you can also transmit composition over
to network frame for instance using that.
And eventually you have some curing abilities on the
QCComposition object; you know you can get the protocol,
the attributes, and the least of inputs and outputs.
The other change we did regarding the API is we now
have QCView, QCRenderer, and QCComposition layer,
and they're all composition renderers
so in order to simplify the API's,
we kind of factored out all the common matters between them
and they just all comply to QCComposition renderer protocol.
So you will find in there as usual the ability to achieve
properties of the composition that's currently loaded
on the renderer, the ability to read and set the
inputs, the ability to retrieve the output results,
and here I like to point out we have a new API in Leopard
and as you can see the second line value for output key
of type, so now you're not limited to the default object
type that you get from the resolute of the composition.
You can actually say for instance, if you want
to get, if you're composition output's an image,
you used to only get an NS image out, now you can say I want
that output value of the composition but give me a CG metro,
CIE metro, whatever is convenient for you to
integrate with the rest of your pipeline.
So that's really great and it works with other types
as well, for example structures you can get as arrays
or dictionaries, etc. And finally two new API's of
interest as well on that protocol the ability to save
in one shot all the current values, all the inputs
of the composition that's currently
loaded on the renderer or restore them.
And it sets them in a convenient p list like format so
you can actually look into it and you can also just put
that directly in a profile or something I bet.
Now to talk about the Core Animation support, so
it's really nice because you can use all the power
of Quartz kernels to create motion
graphics or effects, those kind of things
and bring them seamlessly inside Core Animation on a layer.
So, really it's one line of good, its composition layer
with file or with a QCComposition object and there you go,
you have your layer, you insert
it in your tree and you're done.
And because it's also a QCComposition
renderer object like I just said,
you have all those regular methods you can use with.
The QCView has many changes on the API, I'm just going
to point out a few you can pause, yet more precise control
over the playback so you can pause
and resume rendering for instance.
A powerful ability now is if you
subtract the QCView you can override it
so it's not designed so you call
it directly, do not do that.
It's only for overriding the renderer at
time arguments mattered which is a primitive.
Every time a frame is valid it goes through that,
so what's the point of overriding it if you want
to do precise synchronized communication with a
composition for example, only if the inputs just before it's
about to render are only the ready
outputs after it has rendered.
And you can also retrieve now the OpenGL context
and pixel format choosing to render this is also not
so that you can draw with them, but it's that you can
share other OpenGL contexts, for example Core Video,
or actually QuickTime visual contexts, those
kind of objects, be able to create them properly.
The QCRenderer, I'm also just going
to point out a few new methods.
The first one is the ability to create a QCRenderer from
core OpenGL contacts so it doesn't go more lower than that
in a system level for OpenGL contexts so you can
create it from really any kind of OpenGL contexts now.
And you can also specify which is a big saying 'the
output quarter space' for rendering output quarter space.
What this means is you can now say well I want to render
the Quartz Composition contents in the proper color space
for what I'm going to do with that content.
For instance if you do video processing, you'll
likely want to have Quartz Composer output to 709
color space or 170M color space,
it's more like NTSC data, those kind of things.
If you want to do QC rendering on Tiger you used to have to
create the OpenGLP references for GSL and manage all that.
Now it's like completely abstracted, you just go any
tell screen with size, color space, and that's it.
And then you can render frames and you can read
the result from the frames, those kind of things.
If you want to take a snapshot of the last frame that was
rendered we have now very convenient methods, Snapshota,
you may just create a snapshot, you may just type in
the case of the type, as usual CG image, CI image,
see the OpenGL buffer, all those kind of types is supported.
We have two UI elements that we added, the
first one is a QCComposition parameter view,
what you use it for is if you want to display using a
standard user interface in your application all the controls
to editing input parameters of the composition that's
currently loaded on a composition renderer.
So it's super easy to set up, set
composition renderer, and you're done.
And it will take care of automatically
updating in those directions.
Also if you look at your QCComposition repository
we have a nice speaker built in which either works
as a stand alone version which you can see a nice
shot for instance or an unabated view version
and the way you use it is you set it up
to display some categories of composition
and eventually you get notifications where
the user changes set at the composition.
Finally, like I said, I've uncovered everything
so we encourage you to look at the release now
that you can easily access from
the help menu in the editor.
So now onto our first integration case study, and the
problem we're going to look at is monitoring a data source
that doesn't look that very often, for example we know
ever hour, every couple hours or something like that,
and to take a more concrete example, it's
actually something we solved in our team,
we build on a regular basis Quartz Composer as
you can imagine continuously several times a day
when we have check ins and repository system and so forth.
And we can go to web page, look at the build results,
we also get emails what would happen but we wanted
to try some nice way to monitor that without having to
physically having to go to web page and check for emails,
just have it on your desktop like just hanging around,
you put it since we all have two or three screens,
just put that somewhere and you just monitor it very easily.
So an entry is even simple.
So how would we build something like that?
If you don't have Quartz Composer experience you might
go the usual route which would be 'I'm going to do Cocoa
and I'm going to create a window and  NS table
view and set up all the columns, do all that stuff,
do external downloading and what not' and
it's not like a crucial project for your work,
it's something really that's an add-on for your productivity
so you don't want to spend too many hours on it either
so we're going to look at approaching that problem with Quartz
Composer and how we can solve that problem really fast
and at the same time do something that
looks nice and have some fun while doing it.
So what are the steps?
Well you'll see the first one you want to get
the data from that source you want to monitor.
Then you want to build a composition to display that data
and finally building the application,
so pretty straightforward.
In the case of getting the data from the source, we could
remember there's a web page in our concrete examples
so we could have used the new XML down loader patch
and download that web page, do a lot of heavy parsing
because HTML is basically XML so I try to extract the data.
That can be quite a bit of work and also
fragile so in our case it was simpler
to just have the build system outputs a secondary
file just using basic XML which we're going to call
for the rest of this talk an XML report thing.
And as you can see really simple,
there's just a name on the list of items.
Then each side downsize titles, subtitle, and
caption and also an icon which symbolizes status
where zero would be a success, one would
be a warning and two would be a failure.
So in practice this is how it looks like for example in
our case you can see the builds, you can see the success
and the error, etc. So now onto the demo machine please.
OK, so the first thing is displayig that XML
composition we talked out, that XML data we talked about.
So, I have here a sample report, exactly like it was on
the slide and then I'm not going to build the composition
with you because that wasn't, that's
not the purpose of that session.
It's really to show the integration steps; however
I'm going to explain to you how it was built.
So as usual you will notice that the first thing
we do is clear the background the usual color,
with a constant gray color just so that
we clearly see the text in the viewer.
Now onto the XML handling, so we use the new XML down
loader patch and we specify usually the URL or the bypass
to the location of that file, it gets downloaded, nicely
parked and available and the output as a structure,
which exactly mirrors with the XML contents.
Now we do two things, we use the structure
accessor to extract the name of that report
and then we display choosing the usual imagery string and
billboard which you can see at the top of the viewer here
and then the second step is, as you can
guess, to extract the list of add ins
which we do using another structure key member
and then you should be fine with your list by now,
we use the iterator to iterate over each
item in the list and that's the subset here,
so we extract the proper item corresponding
to the current iteration then remember
that I'd had contents several numbers so the first
one would be the icons thing and we use a multiplexer
to choose the right image to display, depending
on that value is a bit of work to display it,
then we go through constructing the title, do some math
just to position it properly next to the icon and so forth.
We use the regular imagery string and every thing
connected to billboard so that it renders on screen
and it's accurate in process for subtitle and the caption.
Now as you can see I can change that fake report to
wonder would be more realistic, looks like we won't.
Back to slides please.
Now how to build, remember second step was building
a composition, first step getting the data,
building the composition and then
building the little application.
So what does that mean?
Well eventually we're going to need a transparent
window, we're going to need to put it on the desktop,
we're going to use a QCView because it's the
fastest way you can put Quartz Composer playback
into an application, put that in a window.
So that's solves most of the problem,
but we still have a few things to do.
First of all, we need the QCView to ascertain transparency
because remember we have that transparent window
if it's complete to QCView opaque
then complete it gets to a point.
Then we also need in ensure the QCView
does not render more often than necessary.
We're only monitoring a data source
that's a few times for an hour at most,
there is no point in having the QCView running like sixty
frames per second which is kind of difficult behavior.
You don't want to slow down your system on a thing like
that, you just want to have something that updates kind
of like all those status monitoring
things in the menu bar once now and then.
And finally we need to ensure that whenever that
QCView read rolls, once every few minutes or something,
it downloads synchronously the latest XML reports
so that we immediately see the latest one
and know something that has been cached.
So now back to the demonstration please.
So let me show you first the concept for the
transparency so if we go to interface builder,
I'm just going to create a dummy window
here and change its class to be a panel.
Alright, now I can take advantage because our
application is kind of a full screen application,
it doesn't even have a menu bar or anything, it's just
full screen and it sends the text over to desktop.
So we're just going to keep the data running and
take advantage of the new head ability of the window
so we'll get nice transparency, we don't have to do any
fancy settings on the window itself setting opacity,
all those API calls on the window, it just works.
Then as you can guess we need to add a QCView on it so we
look for the QCView object, drag and drop, put it properly,
size it properly, go and make sure it resides with
the window, and now if I run that it's opaque,
so how do we get the QCView to be transparent?
Well there is a little hack here
which is artificially supported
but not many people actually know
it and it also works on Tiger, same thing
To make the QCView render with transparency
and not draw over everything that's behind it,
you want to set the color to
have an alpha value that's not one.
It's that simple, so then it tells, turns on the setting and
generally that says OK I need to render with transparency
so in our case we're just going to
go all the way and set it to zero,
now if I run that you can see the QCView is still
rendered, it's still there but it's not visible.
Now, how do we get the composition to
render properly with transparency as well?
Because you don't want the composition to be opaque, so
I have a sample composition here I'm going to show you
and it's pretty easy to do, all
you need is to do two things.
You need to clear the background of the view of the
composition using clear patch or something equivalent,
you need to plant it with a color that's completely
clear so especially the AFP, you want the AFP to be zero.
So basically that means the enter area here
is actually transparent when it's going
to be composited over some other background.
And then all the images you draw on top of that, you need
to draw them with the transparency mode or blending mode set
to over, so that it composites nicely and it
doesn't, you don't see like a black kind of box
around the image, everything is composited smoothly.
So remember just clear the background completely.
Now if I go back to my IB file, I can load that
demo composition here and now I'm going to run
and as you can see the composition rendered perfectly with
transparency and there is absolutely no artifacts, nothing.
So that's the basic thing that we're going to
use to build our application, the best concept,
so I need to show you what it looks like.
So here we have our little Xcode project, it's
really basic you know, there's little code in there.
Just putting some glue between the various
elements, you can find here the neat file obviously
which is very close to the one we've just built.
The composition file is there and we just open it and
show it to you because there are a couple of changes.
It's very close to the one we had before, the
first one we built except for a couple of things.
Instead of displaying the report and then on screen
we outputted on the report name a string output
of the compositions so that we can retrieve the
report name from the application and be able
to set the title of the window from that.
We also changed the clear, you will notice, to
erase with the completely transparent color.
The XML down loader has a little change as well, if
you show the inspector settings on it you will notice
that it has a new option in Leopard
that's called synchronous download,
so by default the XML down loader will actually use a
background stripe so that it doesn't block the execution
of the composition and the data is
going to be there at some point there.
So with the synchronize download option you just say you
want to block actually during the execution of the graph
and you want to download, wait for the download
to be completed and parsed, then output it.
And that's what we need here because remember
we're not going to render that QCView very often.
So we want to add the latest data downloaded and processed
and be visible immediately, not have any kind of data.
And finally there is one thing left which is that
the XML down loader is kind of smart in the sense
that it's not going to re-download the XML unless the
URL changes or if you play with the update signal,
for example you make it go from false to true to
regenerate the download to tell it you want to re-download.
So remember we want to re-download it every time we render
so an approach could be to have that signal alternatively go
from zero to one and so forth, so that would work perfectly
fine, but I wanted to show you here a different technique
to do it which might be used in other cases, it's a
little bit more complex but it's more powerful as well.
So the trick here is I just wanted to change the URL
constantly so that basically we fool the XML downloader
and we tell it 'OK we download', so how do
you change a URL without really changing it
so that you don't end up downloading another file.
Well it's really simple, you actually just add arguments
to it, so you can see here we have our input URL,
report that XML or it can be a full
URL and then I've written a few lines
of JavaScript we simply add the question mark
and a dummy argument just to regenerate that URL
and the dummy argument simply assists in time
so it's guaranteed to change all the time.
So with that, every time we render the composition
it downloads the latest version of the report.
Now let's go back to Xcode, regarding the
info.plist there is a little thing you need to add.
This application doesn't have a user interface
it doesn't have the menu bar or anything.
So this is called the background on the application;
it still has a user interface; it's not a daemon
So the way you tell the system that is by setting
the LSUI element to true in your info.plist.
Now lets at the implementation in itself, so you have your
usual app control error which is going to handle start up
and the application figuration those kind of things.
And we also have a custom subclass of the
QCView so more about that in a minute.
Now you can see the implementation of the app controller,
it's pretty straight forward, when the app finishes,
about to finish launching, we set the main panel
which is our window, to be on the desktop directly,
we load the composition and we set the default report
URL and important; we set the frame rate in that case
to be one per minute, but we could set it lower or higher.
Finally when the application has really
finished launching we put the window on screen
and we start the rendering of the QCView.
And now the subclass of the QCView, we use the subclass
to do two things, we override the render at time argument
to know when the composition has rendered
so that we can read from it's output,
remember we have that report name output
we want to use, so we read the value just
after it has rendered and we set the windows title.
See, it's quite basic to do.
And we also do another thing which is we check for a mouse
down event with the option key down, it's not a very nice UI
but that's actually the purpose of that demonstration just
so that we could edit the URL that you want to monitor.
So if you press the option key, if you click
in the view and you have the option key
down just show the text field and we can enter the URL.
And the rest of the code here just handles editing that
text field in updating the value in the composition.
So now let's build and run.
You can see it's all live.
There we go.
And it's not visible because it works
correctly and it's some of that stuff.
So you can see the little application that was built, is
in those techniques, pretty fast to build and I can set
to a different URL so let me describe my
example here, which was actually here.
And now we see what it looks like and obviously it
would work exactly the same as that URL
on the remote server instead of being on the disk here.
So let's quit that.
And back to the slides please.
So now what about if we want to monitor another type
of data source, I mean kind of similar data source
that you cannot express you cannot
monitor directly using Quartz Composer.
For instance it doesn't output in XML or as an RSS feed.
So you will need to write a custom patch to handle
it, that means using the new QCView plug in API
which is really powerful because you can write any
type of patches with that and it also takes advantage,
like I mentioned earlier of Objective-C 2.0,
so let's look into that.
I have a quick crash course on writing
your own QC plug-ins.
So that's a QC plug in class and the way it works
to where you use it is you subclass
and you override the required methods.
You then define the inputs and outputs for your custom
patch and you use the have to implement the execution.
A few requirements when you subclass QC plug
in, you need to insure that it works correctly
if you have multiple instances of your QC plug-in.
For every instance of the patch there is a composition
there will be an instance of your QC plug in subclass,
so be careful to share global variables
and things like that.
Also it has to work correctly, if it's not executed
from the main thread, because Quartz Composer can run
on any thread, and don't assume there is a run loop around.
If you need that for download or those kinds
of things, we'll look at the technique later.
So the basics of QC plug in subclassing, well if you need to
do any kind utilization, destruction, just use any dealloc.
Now, the real thing is going to happen for the execution of the
plug in, and you can see the primary set of methods there
which are a conveniently working pair, so yes start
execution stop execution call when the engine start
and stop, you have unable and visible which
I call where you're instance of the QC plug-
in start and stop being used by the engine.
So for example if there is no patch that's currently pulling
data from it then visible application's going to be called
and when it starts again enable execution going to be called.
So you can do some precise tuning or usage
of your precise controller of your resources.
And at the core we have the executive time argument
which is called every time execution needs to happen,
so let's look at this one a bit more in detail.
So that method is responsible for first ridding
the values from the input ports of the patch,
then there from all the computation with those values
and also taking into account the time if necessary,
which you can see is passed as an argument
to that method so that's a composition
to current time of the rendering of the composition.
And then finally write the results of this composition
either on the output ports or if this patch does any kind
of other type of rendering, sending to an editor,
rendering on screen, we'll perform those actions.
Now let's look at how to create ports.
So we rely on dynamic properties which were introduced
in Objective-C 2.0, and what it means is if your subclass
of QC plug in has dynamic properties that start with an
input or output whose names start with input or output
and however have the proper type, the
automatically we create ports that match those.
So in that case you can see a dynamic property of
type double and could value one and that's going to
to map automatically into an input port of type number and
send for input value two and the same way if you wanted
to create a string port that would be any
string for the type and here are the results.
To read and write to those ports you use the corresponding
Objective-C 2.0 syntax, self dot input value one
so after that the result not that the input properties
are read only and the output properties are write only.
Now you might not necessarily know up front all
the inputs and outputs that your plug in needs,
you might want to create them dynamically while the
plug in's running, so we call those custom ports
and it's quite simple to create and destroy them as you can
see using those API's, you just specify the proper type,
the key that identified the ports, and
some attributes for the UI and that's it.
Now, because those do not have corresponding
Objective-C 2.0 properties to read and write to them,
you have to use custom API value for
input key, set value for output key.
You can see on that table the correspondence between the
type of an Objective-C 2.0 property as well as the port type
and the Quartz Composer world and also the type
of value you will get if you create those ports
in a custom way and called value for input key.
Finally, once you set up all your QC plug-ins the way
you package it is basically Cocoa bundle you just need
to have a special entry in the plist that tells
it to plug in classes and then you install it
to the proper location and it just works.
You can also put that plug in inside your application,
load it directly from there if you don't want
to install it system wide and you can even leave the
implementation of the plug in mixed with the rest
of your source code and call register plug
in class directly or register the class.
We have a couple things here, we have some very
nice Xcode templates that's a starting point
to create your own QC plug-ins and also be aware that QC
plug-ins will not load in Quartz Composer set environments,
so that implies what key for instance Quick Time does scan
over environments, having limitations on what we allow
to run inside Quartz Composer and the
custom plug-ins because you have no control
over what they can do, for security reasons we exclude them.
Now QC plug in and practice, remember we wanted to write a
QC plug in to monitor our custom data source for the sake
of the example here, I picked SQLite 3 Database,
which is not supported by default by Quartz Composer so only
as a plug in that allows us to specify the
paths in the database, the query string,
and that returns us a very nice parsed structure.
So onto demo machine, please.
So here I have a simple SQLite that I basically
created which has the same key now as the XML report
so you know its, and we actually show it to you, its going
to be easier, then the ID column, column for the icon,
the column for a title, subtitle,
and a caption, so really basic here.
Now let's look at the plug in itself.
So as you can see, we subclass QC plug in and we
declare our three inputs and output properties,
you can see input data that's fast, input query string
are both string properties that we're going to map
to string ports and output results
structure which we set to be an NS array
in that case it's going to map to a
structure port in Quartz composer.
Now let's look at the implementation.
So first of all, we have some UI thing here so that you know
it appears with a nice name in the Quartz composer interface
for the plug in itself as well as the inputs and outputs,
we also need to tell the system what type of plug
in we're building, what type of custom patch.
So in that case it's a processor, we want to
execute whenever there is a change on the inputs,
create something new on the output and also this plug in
does not depend on the times so we tell the system so.
Now let's go to the core of the
implementation which is the execute method.
So the first thing we do is we read from the database patch
that was given then and we make sure it's valid for now
and if it's not then we just set the
output to nil and continue execution.
We don't want to abort the complete execution of the
composition we just, it's kind of an acceptable user error
in that case, we just return yes and
you set your output to proper values.
Then to actually read and send a query to the
database, I want to keep that simple so instead
of using the SQLite API's I just use directly
the SQLite 3 comma line 2 and just collate
with the proper arguments and force the outputs.
So what you can see here, and I'm not going to go into
details, you can look at the sample card yourself here,
it's essentially NFS task stuff, and
so we run the NFS task synchronously
and then we'll read the output
that comes from it and we parse it.
And here's a function that parses its output it's
essentially looking for return characters those kind
of things and building a nice array of results.
Here we have the NFS task handling which would copy
best from another sample code and that's pretty much it,
there you go so and let's build and run it.
And you will notice that our projects, if you create
them from a template, have build and copy target
which conveniently built and installed
the program at the proper location.
So that's done, now let's look at that composition
file, it's the same as before just slightly modified
so that it chooses our new plug in we just wrote,
so as you can see here replaced the
XML one by the SQLte query plug in.
The query string has been published as an
input port which we can show here and the pass
to that database is query to send and it reports
exactly back in the terminal if all the reports are nice,
which reports to result, nice reports to use as
a structure and then the rest is exactly the same
because remember the structure had the same formatting.
So this concludes my demo, I'd like
to look back to the slides please.
Now a couple of things I didn't have a chance to talk
about, if you need to access resources relatively
to where the composition file is, call composition URL on
the plug in contact that is passed to every execution method
of the plug in, however this is not necessarily
going to return a value it may return nil,
so you need to be prepared to handle that.
And finally if you need to do any kind of logging
instead of using print F or NS log those kind of things,
try to use log message on the context
so then we can redirect it properly.
And finally when it comes to performing background
processing you're going to have to deal with that
if either you want to do very legthy operations
and you care but not locking the execution
of Quartz composer or if you need a run loop.
So what's you're going to have to do
is create a background workers thread.
And it's not that complex, you can use the nice
NS thread API and what you want to start the thread
from the start execution, terminate
the thread and stop execution
and obviously communicate with it during the execute method.
So you have to be aware of synchronization
issues, you gotta use the locks and mutexes
to process your common data obviously and it's better if
you actually block and start execution and stop execution
until the thread is actually finished
starting or finished terminating.
When it comes to testing your QC plug in , so Leopard
is really for when now you have 32-bit, 64-bit,
d
garbage collected, not garbage collected, so instead
of writing your own test application to test your plug
in in all those environments, we have a convenient
feature inside the editor it's already built in,
you can go to file new and select test in run time and
then the composition that's open will launch under 32-bit
or 64-bit if your machine supports 64-bit and you
can see that your plug in behaves correctly or not.
And if you press the option key down when you select
it will indicate to you that it is functioning
with garbage collection on as well,
so you can test really the 4 cases.
Now I'd like to invite Kevin on stage to take
us through the second insert case studies.
Thank you.
(applause)
>>Alright, hello everybody so you see this
pretty clear from visualizing in Quartz composer
in your application and external source of data.
Now we're going to concentrate on the
novel source of data which is movies.
So we're going to see a pretty unique way,
pretty cool way of visualizing the movies.
So here's the problem we try to solve, so you just had this
awesome vacation and you've been at the beach in Hawaii
and something, and you have all this movie you took with
your digital camera, of fish, of children, everything.
And so you put these movies on your computer and you
just have this perfect shot, somewhere over there
and you just can't find it so you have all
this viewfinder, QuickTime, QuickLook,
and you're looking at this precise shot you exactly
know what looking for what it's looking like,
but you keep on scrolling and scroll too fast
and so you miss it, and so that's very annoying.
So there's really no application out there that allows you
to quickly get another view of all the shots in the movie
so that you can quickly get to the one you're looking for.
And so we say well what about trying to do this in QC?
And that's where we go to so because pretty much
you know a movie is nothing more than a 3-D object.
You have the frames and then you have
the frames that are 2-D, 2 dimensional,
and then you have time which is a third dimension.
So what about showing these frames over time and so you
know, we have this kind of view that you see that you see
on the slide where frames are exported over timing in
the kind of view you see precisely when the shot starts,
when the shot ends, you pretty much get pretty quickly
an idea of it's content and you can scroll through it
and select entry output points and
ideally export this shot to disk.
So yes, that's what we did, so how do we get there?
Well first of all you need a composition, a Quartz
composition to display the frames but you know
that you loading these frames might
take a while, especially the movies.
So you don't want to have your even thread that's
going to be blocked where the frames are being loaded.
And each uses the building patch in Quartz
composer which is a movie loader patch.
Well it's going to be the main thread and it's going to
block your UI so it's not going to respond anymore.
So what you want to do is to delegate the
loading of frames to a background thread.
So UI is still going to be responsive
while this is happening.
And so to do this well, we're going to a QC plug in
that's going to do this background frame processing
and that's going to be the main and
the hardest part of the project
and then once this composition is ready we're going to put
it in the QCView and put this QCView and edit this QCView
in the application, and use Cocoa bindings to compilate
so it's pretty easy, just so that the UI's actually come
through in the view where we will finish the application.
And that said, well we want to save the entry and output
points when we find the shot and so we need to do,
we have lots of techniques for doing this, so what
I chose to do is just the QC plug in that use QT tip
to export a Quick Time movie, reference
movie to disk and it's fine rime with QT tip.
So this is the easy part, I'm not
going to go into details over that.
I'm going to concentrate on the plug in, so the
plug in what you will like ideally is so this plug
in that takes an input back which is the best of the movie
and disk and that returns an array of frames and each index
in this array is going to be either null, either the
frame in the frame is inverted by the background thread.
And so then you return this array to QC and
is going to geerate with the natural rate
or all that kind of stuff, so known techniques.
So these array of frames is not going to be able to
hold all the frames because the view run is limited,
we have 256 actual in the best case, so even
in low resolution this is not going to work,
so first we have to load the frame that carries resolution
and then so that is going to load the old array is going
to fit in view run we need to skip some frames.
So that's the thing we have to do on the array.
So how is the plug in going to work internally?
Well so we'll have two arrays, an array of frame requests on
one side and an array of available frames on the other side,
so the array of frames we request is going to be
filled by older requests for the frame that we want
and the available frames is going to
be the frame that I've been loading.
And so as prior mentioned the main part
of the QC plug in is the execute method.
So the execute method is running in the main
thread is going to fill up the array of requests,
the frames that I want at each time stamp and is going to
check the array of available frames is OK, is going to copy it.
This one's available; return it to
QC so the QC can do the drawing.
And so in palette you have the background thread that
will work presently, so he's going to take the request
so that's what I actually load, he's going to process then
using some QuickTime code and then he's going to put this frame
and fill them up in the array of available frames.
And of course because this two array are going to be accessed
by two threads in palette so we need to log them carefully.
So let me show you a demo and first of
all how all of this code looks like.
So you have Xcode, let me open the directory of plug-ins.
So all the sample codes, source code is available
so you're welcome to go and check it out yourself.
So let me just go directly to the execute method, it's here
so that's where everything's happening so for those of you
who want to go into details, there is some directories
above the QuickTime code, the threading, the internal stuff,
we don't want to really go into details about it,
I'm just going to show you the main architecture
of the plug in, the QC plug in part of it.
So here's the code that happens whenever the input path
change so what we do here that we set up the thread,
we set up the movie so we call this little
function and we do some computation with interval.
And so here you see this function set of thread
which is where the thread is going to be set up,
I'm just going to come back there in one second.
And this is the main core, which is we call a function,
and so this function is simply building the array request
and getting the array of available threads
and returning it so this function returns.
And then we have other parameters that are going to
be for the later improvement of the plug in,
and so let me just go quickly in this set up threading that
out so we go there, we create a new thread so that's here,
the thread is detached over here, using a selector
processing thread, so let me go to selector,
so that's a pretty interesting technique
so I just want to mention really quickly.
We have a run loop which is the run up under the
thread and what we're going to do is that we are going
to attach a run loop source that is linked to a call
back in here and that list call back is going to process
to do the frame processing to using QuickTime
and so that's going to be a call back method
whether the frame put them in there direct.
So that technique is pretty cool because then you attach
this call back to the run loop you can pretty easily work
up your thread and put it to sleep by
stopping the run loop and waking it up.
So let me show how it looks like with a simple composition.
And you see that it's showing, and your UI looks pretty
responsive, it's smooth nothing, you know, it's pretty nice.
And so here we go so load this movie in and it's pretty
cool because here you can clearly see the different frames,
the different shots over there, so let me look
at the composition to see how we did this.
I'm going to zoom in just a little bit, we
have to try both so we can rotate it around,
then we have a free transformation that's
just three camera position is based
with this nice perspective at this time.
And then so let's look again other parameters for later
but here we have the path and the output frames array,
so all the frames are here, and then images, we use
an iterator to draw these frames over the axis.
So just some, here we go the images, then we do some
math so aspect ratio of the stripes and then the position
on this axis simple math and then
we draw it using this part.
So it's not hard and it' pretty cool, it's pretty nice.
Alright, so let me go back to slides.
So that's our first example, now I'm going to show you
how you can leverage QC to enhance the visual impact
of your composition and its interactivity, so first of
all a pretty cool technique, how to navigate smoothly
in the QCView so you have different camera position.
Let's say you have another view camera position and you have
a close up camera position and you want to smoothly look
from one camera position to the other one, so it's
pretty easy to put in QC, I'm going to show you how.
Then let's say you want to browse your
movie and you want to define a focus point
which would be the focus frame of your movie.
So around this focus frame let's say that you want to
get close to it, you would like to have full resolution
on the frame itself so lots of more details
and for resolution temporal resolution,
so you would like to have more frames around.
So to do this we need to improve the plug in in
exactly the same manner, so we're going to add the thread
to the four resolutions, they're
going to be exactly the same thing.
And then because we want to make this focus frame
purely stand out so what I'm going to show you is how
to do a pretty simple and pretty
cool cover flow like effect.
And then the reflection is not only for the dock it's also
for QC so we're going to add a little reflection on the frames
so that everything is going to look pretty good.
Alright, so I need to go back to the
demo machine to show you this new composition
so here we go, we have flowers and a pretty good
thing of flowers but that some of you can use,
so here you have the 3D transformation, you see this
rotation and transition, the position of the camera
in space is actually coming out of - let me enlarge
it a little bit - a JavaScript patch that is
out spurning these positions and then this position
rotation and then going through a smooth patch,
so that's the technique and the JavaScript patch, what
it's going to do, that it's going to store the camera rotation
and position and return regarding an input index,
the associated position and rotation in the area.
And because this position or rotation is going to go through
smooth patch we'll have this very nice transition smooth
and go from there, so we have a very cool look on the
first frame and where this side view is pretty nice.
So you know you can have different other view on your movie
so then I said let's define a focus frame, so it's here,
right here you see this little stuff moving around, and
you see the background loading a frame below the gray area.
So and here you see around this area, every frame
is loaded so that's a thread that's doing that,
we give it an input index, an input
number location in the movie
and around this location is going to load
every frame and also at high resolution.
So if you see from this view, this guy coming,
so you view up you see you have four resolutions,
so here's your resolution on that point.
So that's nice but in this stack
there we don't really see up,
we don't really see anything, so
it's not very useful so much.
So let me go and add, so here is being inside the
submission then the actuator and this is the function
that simply computes the position on the
z axis of the frames and nicely in there.
So it's one give one, two gives
two, and so it's just like that.
So I'm going to change this by a
little Mac function that you can look
if the composition is available, just simple, not too hard.
So and is going to simply explode around the position
so the focus point the frames so let me connect this,
we're going to turn this function up and you see
here you have, this looks pretty cool you know,
you can already look at your movies and you already
see this frame over here which is for resolution.
And every thing's pretty smooth still, we can go here
and see, so another thing now I'm going to add a little,
here I have this JavaScript patch that kind
of makes the focus point move at the speed
that would be the play back movie,
the play back speed of the movie.
And I'm going to insert that in my stream here,
and that's going to be linked to the play button
and so that's going to give this kind
of very nice plain effect.
So you can go and move around, but that's
kind of nice and what's pretty cool is
that you know we recreated the movie in its initial
resolution because the frame, the images in frame,
are static, is the frames of the movie that
are moving in the free environment
from this time we create the image of motion
motion, it's not images changing.
So here it is, last thing add some
reflection so, here we go,
so that's a reflection which is pretty much
flipping the sprite and adding an effect
so I we have the reflection effect and up.
So I'm going to turn that on, the ??? key here, put it on
true, so you see now pretty quickly we get you something
which is pretty nice and assumes you are active.
So now let me show you the final application.
So the code that's pretty much all
Cocoa bindings and stuff like that.
We're waiting for Xcode, compiling, it's real time demo.
And so we have all the old nice UI's so I did
a bunch of stuff not so much, but here we go,
so we have a little library of this movie and we're
trying to locate our shots within that library of movies
and you see I linked the focus
point to the mouse position here
so you can scroll here of little
indexes and stuff like that.
And so camera position here so I can go to camera two
and we zoom in, we have frame by frame, edit here,
adding to the keys so we can go to look for something.
This third camera position this I can of like
it does this slow thingy which is a trip thing,
it's just new function so it's kind of cool.
(applause)
And, thanks, so you know it's just another function
on the rotation, we have position and that's
for rotation, pretty much the same thing.
So it's nice, it does films to the effect and you still
have the reflection going under it and so we can go
and look at our new close up and see that
here we have, so it's pretty smooth still,
and we have the full resolution HD and we have pretty
cool caching system in QC so that you know all the texture
and everything we manage that for
you in very optimal manner.
So let me start playing and let's say that I want to
find my movies so I go there, on the fishes because I was
at the beach so I want to find my shots so let me zoom in
and so you can play and set it up, that's it so I found it.
Now let me click on start position, so we have an input
point that's over here and let me go to the end position,
here we go, let's go back, and so we can go in the
overview to see if it's exactly what I want, so yeah, up.
Yeah, that's it, I recognize the color and the shade so
that's me, so that view we just exported to the desktop
so it's my....and we have my fish movie and it will go.
So I set in my shot pretty quick so
just as a reference quick to get movie.
So I use my application to find my shot
from my awesome vacation at the beach.
(applause)
But you know it's pretty easy to experiment and go
even further, I couldn't stop there so I did this slow.
(laughter)
So you know you have CI and QC core in there
so you can apply realtime perimeter effects
so you can adjust the brightness, select the region,
the contrast and everything and let's put a little black
and white effect, you can do all the images
you want, just an example that's pretty cool.
So it's pretty back to normal.
So I'm going to erase that stuff, but I could not just stop
there and you know we have lots of course on those machines
and so let's say let's have another thread to
show image permission because we have a new way
of seeing the movies, you have
all this space which is there.
So let me go back on the flower movie because it has
lots of color and so what about using all this 3 D,
are we yet to show image histogram,
so information on the images.
(laughter) So we have this other and it's
pretty nice because you see this little guide,
you know the histogram's going from one side to the other
as you change the frames so you know you can go check
out the other camera position if you go close,
you have this stick around, updating in old time.
So...(applause)
and there is not much in there of OpenGL,
so let me go back to the slides please.
Alright, so just imagine the possibilities because I
had to stop because I had to work on my slides (laughter)
and you know the visual stuff is coming in a second, I
also had to work on that, so imagine the possibilities.
Let's say that you can, may be the next generation editing,
3D's hot, you can imagine selecting shots
and all this stuff translating around so you can clearly
show where your shots, where your edit point starts
and ends, you can export that to QuickTime using
a Quartz composer plug in to final cut format
so that you can continue editing in Final Cut.
You kind of say imagine showing image difference and
to show where the shot starts, where the shot ends,
where you have difference plotting this curve in space
and that's of course thresholding to automatic syncer.
For the science people you can also, and I thought
it would be pretty nice to do it, you can do a motion
or object tracking, you could track an
object and you can visual the curve in space
and see if it's continuous or not continuous.
So you know you have lots of stuff and QC with
all these new patches are available, the new API,
you're hardly going to be limited and you're going
to be very efficient so you go very fast doing this.
And again you have the source code you can check
it out, it's really not a couple of months,
it's just a couple of weeks, so now let me talk
to you about the Quartz composer visualizer.
So the Quartz composer visualizer is this wall
of displays, it is the application
that drives the Quartz composer wall display
that is in the graphics and media lab.
So this wall is made of nine MacPros with
ATI X1900 XT cards connected to 18 to 30" displays,
so each MacPro directs two monitors and we need this
card and this power because we have two 30 inch monitors
so we need the MacPro, but if you have plasma
you can work with all kind of computers.
And so the Quartz Composer visualizer is the application
that makes this possible so spanning across the composition
or over multiple displays over network
and that's a new developer tool
which is in developer application graphics tool.
And it's free so anything better than
free because the source code is provided.
So you can hack it yourself, so how does it look?
Well that's a local case so it's pretty as simple
as you can get, you can span your composition
over multiple displays connected locally to
your machine, you just drag your composition,
click on start, and boom it's going to work as expected.
Then local case so that's the whole
screen chart that we have for the wall,
so little more option for network synchronization, but
that's pretty much it, you drag composition, you can start
and it's going to span and we have  a little UI to
position the screen just basically correspond their
physical location.
So now I'm going to talk to you how to handle the
root of this application design, so first of all,
locally how does it work to a standard composition
over multiple displays; and then how to span in just
like the work configuration over the network?
So locally you need a Mac and displays, let's
say two, and so first you're going to set
up one Quartz composition per display then you
set up a full screen of contacts on the display
and then you create a QCRenderer out of this
composition and full OPenGL context object.
Then you need to tell this QCRenderer to render
so you can use different techniques timer,
timer in a separate thread per screen, but the technique
we recommend you use is a Core Video display link
which is just like the timer in a
separate thread per display but synchronized
with a different refresh rate so
it's better for performances.
Then you need to tell 'what is the subregion
that needs to be rendered on these displays',
and for this you just transform
the OpenGL projection matrix,
just before coding your render at
time method on your QCRenderer.
So we just do a frame transform so that
just transect and secure as expected,
and then you invert that after you use that method.
So all the drawing is going to be perfect.
So this stuff is going to work in most cases, but
lets say you have a game where you have 2 states
and because you have one big state,
which is the lives of the player
and because you have one composition per screen let's say
that if you die on the left screen that state is going
to reflect that on the left screen
but you might still be alive
on the right screen, because you have state kind of stuff.
So, having a composition per screen in that
kind of particular case, it's not going to work,
so a solution we took is to spin this composition between
a processing composition, and a rendering composition.
The processing composition is going to do the composition on
only the game for instance, and keep all the lives
and the rendering composition is
going to do the drawing only.
So the composition only on one
side and drawing on the other side,
and then we're going to have one processing
composition per screen
sorry, one processing composition per computer
and one drawing renderer per display.
And this was going to happen as the processing composition
is going to forward its output source to the input source
of each rendering composition on the displays.
So then that's going to solve that kind of problem, so now
it met ok, so we have a host computer and we have a bunch
of clients so the host needs to know where the clients are
so they're going to use BOM so that the host can find them
and then once it's going to be done we're going to create
a TCP connection between the host and initial client.
And the TCP connection is going to be used to
send a screen configuration composition files,
play stop messages from the host to the clients,
application parameters for instance screen
results and so on.
So something I would like to say here is that this Quartz
composer visualizer application the technology behind it,
Quartz composer, is not like the X11 of thing, so in X11
you send an instruction over the network, here it's not this,
we have the Quartz composition, a recipe for rendering
graphics so we transfer this composition once and for all
to the clients and then they're are going to be
played locally and then only time is going to be synchronized.
So what it means is that in that case we're going to have
full performance everywhere, so it's important to say that.
In the case of processing, rendering, differentiation,
well the processing composition is going to run on the host
and forward the composition data to every client.
And yes, so that's pretty much it so you can
go and check out the source code yourself,
if you want some more details about that.
So we have first the application directory that
deals with all the events and UI in the interface.
We have the network directory that deals
with all the Bonjour and TCP connections.
Then we have the renderers that have the processing
and rendering renderers to see where it's done,
and then the extras which is just a bunch of
objects for getting rid of screen configurations
and stuff like that and sending them over the network.
Alright so go and come check out the wall, you can
have open hours when you can try your own composition
and if it don't look great at least it looks big.
(laughter)
So let me go back here.
(applause)
Hello, OK, thanks.
Thanks Kevin for all of those great
demonstrations, so rapidly a few slides to finish;
I'd like to talk about optimizing the API usage,
we have a lot of new API's in Quartz composer
and two big things you can do for performance.
The first one is be careful of color management , we
now pay strict attention to that new image by applying
so that your data is not properly tagged or tagged wrongly,
it will not look right or just slow down everything
because we have to do this for color matching.
So for, for instance try to stay away from device
core space because it's not always properly defined,
you should use generate instead; the
NS color, NS bit map another kind
of object those classes do not necessarily have a well
defined Quartz space either in all cases so it's better
to use CG color or CG image and so forth and if you
deal with video data we have new profiles built in Leopard
in the system so that you can tag them properly
with like 709 HD or HD content.
And also I'd like to point out that to really increase
performances in complex users of Quartz composer,
you're likely going to have multiple QCView or
QCRenderer and passed data will be between them
You used to be limited to have to use NSG matrix
which are really not great for performances
because it might imply downloading from a
GPU, re uploading, all those kind of things.
So what we have now is through the value for output key of
type new method you can use a special type called QC image
which will return an opaque object you cannot do
anything with but you can use it as a token to pass
to another QCRenderer and that's
basically an internal measure composition
for Quartz composer and super optimal, the best it will be.
Same thing for passing structures around,
you can ask for a QC structure opaque object,
for more information Alan Schaffer is our
Graphics Evangelist so please refer to him
and once again we have a great public
mailing list you're more than welcome to join
and we're actively participating on that list.
We have our lab right this afternoon where actually
most of us are going to go right now and during lunch break
and we'll be there all afternoon
in the graphics imaging lab.
The OpenGLP pooling core image people will be there as well,
so it's going to be a great lab please
drop by if you have any questions.
Now what to remember from these sessions?
Well, really I'd like you to consider how Quartz
composer can help you in your new project and the fact
that it's not only for graphics because even it's multi
used for that today, you can definitely build a composition
that does pure data processing and outputs
other data without rendering in a single screen.
Also, you can do pretty complex things if you
want to integrate an already existing application
and a QCRenderer might be your best friend for that
because you really have precise control over the rendering.
And finally you know it's now completely possible to extend
Quartz composer by writing your own patches and you can do
that in a simpler way using the virtual
patch technique I described as the beginning,
or you can write your own plug-ins and this
time you have to use Xcode on Objective-C 2.0.